Thread ID: 1k4sufs
Title: Denied claim for totally avoidable MRI for a surgery I didn’t even end up getting…
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1745280703
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user had an MRI denied by insurance after a surgeon required it for a surgery that was ultimately postponed due to ongoing seizures, leading to a significant bill they cannot afford.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: insurance denial, medical necessity, financial burden
Options Suggested: contact the surgeon's office, review diagnosis codes, appeal the denial with additional information
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to appeal the denial of their claim.
Original Post: Alright so a little backstory/context: 
I have epilepsy. Have been having seizures for about 13 years. I had a seizure at work several years ago that caused a shoulder fracture. ER sent me home, never got an X-ray, never healed properly. After that my shoulder would randomly dislocate all the time, often from having seizures and falling into the same position (very common injury for people who have seizures). I went to an orthopedic surgeon and gave him all this information. It was in my chart from the beginning that I was epileptic. In fact, he was the one who told me about the commonality of this type of injury for people with seizures. He did an initial surgery that wasnt very successful. Started dislocating again after about a year. I went back to him and he said we should do a second surgery, this one a bit more invasive but with the hopes that it would fix the problem once and for all. He scheduled an MRI before the surgery to get a better idea of what he was working with. Got the MRI, scheduled the surgery. 

A few weeks before the surgery was scheduled, he asked me when my last seizure was, I told him I was still having them regularly with the last one being a few weeks prior. He told me that I would need to be 6 months seizure free before doing the surgery so as to not risk injury while recovering (but he never asked me any of this when I had the first surgery). Disappointing, but I agreed I didn’t want to take the risk. 

A few months later I get billed $1800 for the MRI. I filed a claim with my insurance (BCBS) that was denied. Included all this information, arguing that this was an oversight on the provider. Should he not have asked me more about my seizures before scheduling the surgery and ordering an unnecessary MRI? Obviously I wouldn’t have agreed to the MRI if I knew I ultimately wouldn’t even be able to get the surgery. 
The only explanation I got back as to why my claim was denied is that “services billed on the claim are for imaging and injections, and sometimes an injection can be considered surgery.” Kind of missing the point? 

Is there absolutely anything I can do here to fight this? I’m a social worker making very little money and if I don’t pay this it is going to go into collections. ANY advice is appreciated 🙏🏼

 
