Thread ID: 1jkp8jl
Title: UHC Completely Screwed Me Over, No Idea What To Do Now!
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1743029727
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is experiencing significant issues with United Healthcare regarding their insurance coverage start date, leading to denied claims and financial stress due to out-of-pocket medical expenses. They are seeking advice on how to resolve the situation after extensive communication with both UHC and the Colorado Marketplace.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Coverage start date confusion, Communication issues with UHC, Financial stress due to medical expenses
Options Suggested: Contact the escalation team, File a complaint with the state department of insurance, Seek reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to appeal their insurance denial and resolve their coverage issues.
Original Post: I am at a complete loss of what to do. I absolutely cannot afford my meds without insurance.  Looking for advice for recourse or next steps.

Quick Summary:  
I signed up for a policy via the Colorado Marketplace.  I was SUPPOSED to start 1/1/2025, but meds, doc visits and a visit to urgent care were denied by UHC up until Jan 28th.  Then they billed me for Feb, despite not actually covering me for Jan that I paid for. I spend several WEEKS going back and forth with UHC and the Marketplace each blaming the other, and I am left with no coverage and unable to get another policy without a "qualifying life event".  I've spent countless hours trying to deal with the situation, all during work hours of course.

Long version:

Dec 25th I was notified by WageWorks that my medical coverage would end Dec 31st, I was previously told I was covered through Feb 2025.  I immediately contacted the Colorado Marketplace and signed up for a policy through United Healthcare.  Since I missed the enrollment deadline, despite noting in the enrollment process that I was losing coverage, I had to call to finish enrollment as I could not complete it online.  Upon receiving the confirmation email on Dec 27th, I noticed the start date was 2/1/2025.  My daughter wrestles and maintaining insurance is a requirement for her to wrestle and she had Regional and State competitions later in Jan.

Dec 30th I contacted UHC and was transferred multiple times, given 4 different phone numbers and spend upwards of two hours to finally be hung up on.Jan 3rd I called back and went through the same mess, and another 45-60min before I actually spoke to someone remotely helpful.  I once again explained the issue and was put on hold multiple times before she just read back to me the start date and other facts of the policy.  I said that I understood that, but I needed the effective date changed.  I was put on hold again and when she came back she told me that she is unable to do that, I'd have to speak to someone else.  She said she'd get them for me and put me on hold.  I was on hold for 15min before she came back (1 min after the hour) and said the person had already left for the day and she would schedule a call back and tried to hang up on me without confirming any phone number.  I was on hold for over an hour that day 40min in total.  

Jan 6th  Yet another call to UHC, and another 30+min before speaking to someone.  I was finally learning to navigate the system to get me to someone quicker.  The call went almost exactly as the one on the 3rd, but since I called in the morning I knew they couldn't stall to avoid me.  The supervisor told that I needed to contact the Marketplace to update the policy start date, they couldn't do anything.

Jan 6th I called the Colorado Marketplace and was told that it was unlikely that the start date could be changed, but they would ask.  They let me know that IF it happened that the policy could take a few days and up to a week for the UHC website to reflect the updated start date.

Jan 7th I received an email from the Marketplace with the new start date.

Jan 13th I tried to get some refills, only for the Pharmacy to inform me that the policy is not active.  I called UHC and ran the phone gauntlet for the customer service agent to insist that my start date is Feb 1st, not Jan 1st.  I explained about the change being made at the Marketplace, and she stated that she can see everything from the Marketplace and the start date is Jan 1st.

Jan 17th I tried again thinking that since I didn't wait a FULL week that maybe they didn't receive it.  At this point my diabetes meds were running low so I was getting nervous.  Same result.  I paid for most of the meds out of pocket, but one is over $900 w/o insurance and $25 with a manufacturer coupon that requires insurance coverage.  I once again contacted UHC, and once again explained the issue, and once again was informed that the start date was Feb 1st.  My plea to speak to a manager was denied with "they will just tell you what I told you, it's the only information available".I called again on Jan 20th and Jan 23rd because my daughter had regional competition that weekend and I needed to ensure we had coverage.  Both days I spent well over an hour on the phone for a customer service rep to very bluntly tell me the start date was Feb 1st.

My daughter ended up injured that weekend.  On Jan 26th we went to AFC Urgent Care and once again, UHC denied coverage and I had to pay out of pocket for the visit.

On Jan 27th I called UHC EXTREMELY UPSET.  I admittedly was not polite as I, for the umpteeth time, went over the issue.  I suggested the read the notes from previous agents since I had called multiple times now.  They said THERE WERE NO NOTES!  But did inform me that my start date was Feb 1st.  At that point I DEMANDED a supervisor!  After nearly 20min on hold I was sent to a supervisor.  She told me that she could see updated paperwork from the Marketplace!  I asked why no one else could and she said they didn't have access to that screen.  WHY?!  Why deny them access to a screen that could solve a whole lot of issues.  The department I am always routed to is SPECIFICALLY for the CO Marketplace, why wouldn't they have access to it?!  She didn't know why the policy date was incorrect and would look into it and get back to me.Jan 29th I get a VM from the supervisor stating that the start date has been corrected.

Jan 30th I get a bill for Feb coverage.

So the $985.77 I paid when I signed up was applied to Jan, but I was not covered for nearly ALL of Jan!  I was repeatedly told my start date was Feb 1st and all coverage was denied and I paid for meds and visits out of pocket (roughly $600 total).

Feb 3rd I got all my refills and the policy was active.

Feb 5th I called UHC to ask about the bill.  I argued that I was never ACTUALLY covered for Jan, so the money should have been applied to Feb, not Jan.  We went back and forth and they just kept telling me that the start date was Jan 1.  They had no knowledge, no notes, or anything from my previous calls/issues.  They could not explain why the app showed a Feb 1st date previously or why any of my things were denied.  They suggested that I submit a form for reimbursement.  I politely informed them that when I tried that several years ago (also UHC) that I spent 6 months going back and forth over $200.  They would request all kinds of things, and often the same thing multiple times.  I finally gave up, which I suspect is the point of the process.

Feb 7th I called UHC again to be put on hold and hung up on after about 45min.

Feb 10th I called again and got the exact same reply, that the start date was Jan 1st.  I suggested she check the other screen so she can see where the start date was updated, and I was told quite frankly "there is no other screen".  I asked to speak to a supervisor and after being on hold off and on for about 25min I was told that none were available.  She offered a call back and actually took my number.  She said I should hear back later that day or tomorrow.

Feb 12th  After no call back from UHC, I called them again.  I was very frank and direct in my explanation and immediately requested a supervisor.  They deflected and gave me the same spiel I had already heard a dozen times and refused any response other than requesting a supervisor.  After the same hold off and on then telling me none were available and offering a call back I refused.  I told them that didn't happen previously so why would I expect it to happen now.  I insisted on waiting until one was free.  I was on hold for about 10min before being put on with a "supervisor".

This was a bit different than previous calls.  First off, this was Tracy, and she spoke perfect English.  The first for ANY of my previous calls.  I have auditory processing issues, so even the slightest accent makes it very difficult for me to process without also seeing their face.I ONCE AGAIN explain the entire saga starting back from Dec.  Tracy says that she can see where the Marketplace cancelled the policy starting on Feb 1 and replaced it with a new policy starting Jan 1.I reiterated that it may SHOW I had coverage, but the reality was that everything was denied for all of Jan, so I actually DID NOT have coverage and should not be forced to pay for it.  My payment should be applied to Feb.She claimed that she couldn't do anything, and said the Marketplace had to change the date (again).  She called the Marketplace with me on the line and we spoke to Anthony who went through what happened.  I applied on the 27th and had a policy starting Feb 1, they at my request they cancelled the policy and issued a new one with a start date of Jan 1.  Tracy commented that they shouldn't have cancelled the existing policy, they should have just changed the date.  Anthony replied that the issue was escalated and the escalation team made that decision.  I asked why it was that it took less than 24hrs for UHC to have my first policy, but the new policy took a month to show up?  No one had a response to that.  I continued by saying that when my work policy was cancelled, it showed up immediately in the app, but there was only one policy showing up in the app for this new coverage, despite both UHC and the Marketplace saying a NEW policy was issued. Again, no answers.  Anthony said that at this point there is nothing they could do as the policy was already changed once when it's not really their policy to do so, and they are unable to do it again as a limitation of their system.  It would require ANOTHER new policy, and would require a life event to do so.Tracy hung up and Anthony and we continued to talk.  I told her that I didn't need a new policy, I just wanted to continue to use this policy, but have the payment applied to Feb, and Jan be free since I had no actual coverage.  She said she understood, and agreed that I shouldn't be expected to pay for Jan when I had no coverage.  She also suggested that I could submit for a reimbursement, and I told her the same thing I told the previous rep.  She said she would dig into this more and get back to me with some clear answers.  She confirmed that I didn't want to cancel the policy or want a new policy, but that I wanted the payment shifted and to continue with the existing policy.  I confirmed that was correct.  She asked for several days and she gave me the # to the Escalation Team (888) 606-2367, and then her direct extension x609876.  Before we hung up I asked her point blank if my policy was at risk of being cancelled for non-payment.  She told me that the policy would not be cancelled until the issue is resolved.

By Feb 19th I hadn't heard anything back from Tracy, so I called the number and extension and left a message giving her both my cell and work numbers to call me back on.I called and left another message Feb 21st.

Feb 24th I left yet another message in the morning.  In the afternoon I just called the Team's number thinking I could just get someone else.  The number rolls to a voicemail with a full mail box, so it is impossible to leave any kind of message.

Feb 26th I left another message for Tracy.

Feb 28th I went through the general queue and requested the Escalation Team.  I was asked why I needed to speak to them and I told the rep that I was working with Tracy on an issue and have been unable to get a hold of her.  She wanted more details, and when I suggested she read previous call notes she claimed she could see that I had called previously about the start date.  I told her I wasn't going to go into it again and she told me that she had to give her supervisor a reason before she was allowed to transfer the call.  I told her that I was already working with one of their team and that should be reason enough.  She said it wasn't and made me spend 20min going through everything with her.  
I was clear to me that the agents and supervisors are the gatekeepers and require all kinds of info that SHOULD ALREADY BE ON THE ACCOUNT!    
After all of that I was put on hold for 40min and hung up on.

I was sick most the weekend and wasn't able to call again until March 6th where I left yet another voice mail.  
March 7th I went to refill my prescriptions and found out that my policy had been cancelled.  I immediately called UHC wanting answers.  I demanded the Escalation Team and was given the same gatekeeper runaround.  This time she came back and told me that the Escalation Team said that they had already dealt with my issue and there was no reason to speak to me.  Then she told me there was an outstanding balance on the account and asked if I wanted to make a payment.  It was my turn to hang up.

March 10-14th I left at least 15 more messages for Tracy.  It became clear that Tracy had no intention of returning my calls.

March 17th I called and ONCE AGAIN went through the whole thing with the customer service agent, taking longer each time, I think my initial call/explanation time is up to about 40min at this point.  I got the same robotic response that my start date was Jan 1, I owed for Feb and my policy was cancelled in accordance with their rules.  I told her that Tracy from the Escalation Team told me expressly that it would NOT be cancelled until this was resolved and that it CLEARLY isn't' resolved.  She remarked something like, "Apparently they think it is."  She's not wrong, but there was definitely a tone how she said it.  I asked what I could do about reinstating the policy.  She said I'd need to pay for Feb before they could do anything.  I asked her a different way to be clear... "If I pay for Feb will my policy be reinstated?"  She hesitated then finally said she didn't think so because the Marketplace would have to initiate a new policy since this one was terminated for non payment.  Again I restated, "So if I pay for Feb, UHC will not reinstate my policy.  I have to have a new policy from the Marketplace?".  She agreed.  I thanked her and hung up.

March 19th I call the Marketplace.  They claim they can't do anything because UHC handles all billing issues.

March 20th I call UHC and relay what Marketplace said, they the agent said nearly the exact same thing the previous one did.

March 21st I call the Marketplace again BEGGING for help!  They repeated that they can't do anything about billing issues.  I said, "Fine, forget the bill, it sounds like even if I pay the bill they won't reinstate.  They require a NEW policy from you.  Can you do that now and let me deal with UHC and the outstanding bill on the other policy?"  They tell me that they can't.  They already issued me a new policy outside of the window and I will require a qualifying life event for another new policy.  They claim that UHC \*CAN\* reinstate the policy they just don't want to. She gave me a number they have for UHC that's the "Rocky Mountain Case Management Agency" line of 855-830-1564.  The prompts just dump you in the normal UHC Marketplace queue.

March 24th Yet another call to UHC.  I tell them that the Marketplace can't issue me a new policy and what can I do.  She states, "You need to call the Marketplace and have then issue a new policy then we can process a new policy for you."  I state again "They Marketplace CAN'T issue me a new policy, how can we proceed?"  We go back and forth with her repeating the same thing word for word another 3 or 4 times before I get frustrated and hang up.

March 25th I call UHC again and jump through the usual hoops and request so speak to a supervisor.  I get the typical run around of  being put on hold and told they aren't available.  I then demanded the escalation team, and insisted that the issue is NOT resolved and they needed to speak to me since no one on their team EVER called me back!  I was briefly put on hold again and then told they would need to call me back.  I said "Fine" but I wasn't expecting anyone to actually call me back.

March 26 THEY CALLED ME BACK!  I didn't catch their name.  A member from the Escalation Team called me back and it went about the same as the March 24th call with the agent saying I needed to call the Marketplace.  After the second time I finally said, "FINE, you call me and let's talk to them together!"  She did just that. We spoke to Essence at the Marketplace who confirmed that they don't handle any billing, that all goes through UHC and they are unable to adjust the start date of the current policy AND that they are unable to issue a new policy like the agent suggested.  I asked what we can do, and she said that UHC is able to reinstate the policy and they just need to let the Marketplace know when it's been reinstated.  Essence commented that I should make sure that when I pay the bill that it's CRYSTAL CLEAR that the policy would be reinstated to ensure they don't just pay the outstanding balance and cut me off.  While I very much appreciated that advice, it bothered me that she was so quick to suggest that, leading me to believe that UHC has done that in the past often enough for the Marketplace agents to warn people.  
We hung up with the Marketplace and I told her that I just want to make a payment so that the coverage could be effective April 1 because I'm out of diabetes meds and can't afford several of them at this point, Mounjaro (\~$900) and Jardiance (\~$300).  She said she needed to contact Enrollment and would get back to me.  
She called me back several hours later.  She told me that Enrollment told her that they couldn't reinstate and I needed to contact the Marketplace for a new policy.  I reminder her that we just talked to the Marketplace and that they couldn't do that.  She repeated the exact same thing (I'm now convinced they are just reading it off of something).  I asked to speak to a manager or SOMEONE who could actually help me.  She said something to the effect of, "Enrollment said your policy start date was Jan 1 and your policy was cancelled for non payment on Feb 28th.  They cannot reinstate it due to nonpayment."  I was frustrated and replied that first off I was told by her coworker Tracy that it WOULDN'T be cancelled until this was resolved, and Enrollment is making decisions based on bad info.  She then told me that Tracy is out on sick leave.  (Given that it's been over a month, I am guessing she was fired or quit).  She once again repeated the same thing word for word and I shouted back at her, "Quit telling me the details of the file I am well aware of what it SAYS, however that is NOT REALITY!  Enrollment is making decisions based ONLY on what they see in the file without knowledge of what actually happened.  Let's get Enrollment on the phone!"  
She refused and repeated the same thing again.  
I SHOUTED "GET ENROLLMENT ON THE PHONE"  
She repeated the same thing again.I hung up and started this email.

At this point I have spent nearly 2 months and 40+ hours on the phone dealing with this.  I have been ignored, hung up on, flat out lied to, etc.  No one at UHC is HEARING me, I just get platitudes of "yeah I understand your frustration" and "I'm sorry..." but there is no way they can understand my frustration and they are absolutely NOT sorry.  

Had this been last year, I prob would have just paid the $1000 and moved on, but my industry deals with steel/manufacturing and a lot of government contracts so I was knocked down to a 1099 and I barely make 20% of what I was last year so I have a lot more time than I do money.  I'm struggling to pay the $150 athletic fee for my daughter, I don't have an extra $1000 on top of the $600 I paid out of pocket.

This has caused me an unbelievable amount of stress, I've been sick for weeks and had issues sleeping due to the stress and illness and it's affecting the work I am actually getting to where I am worried they will take me off projects.

I am speechless at how frustrated I am, and how powerless I am.  The Marketplace and UHC just point at each other saying "not me" and there is NOTHING I can do about it.  UHC won't listen, won't let me talk to anyone who can actually do anything, cut off my coverage, don't care, and again NOTHING I can do about it.  On top of not listening they call me multiple times a day to collect on the Feb payment they claim I owe!
