Thread ID: 1jcl48j
Title: Insurance cutting inpatient therapy
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1742130669
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user's mother was denied insurance coverage for inpatient therapy due to a lack of a stroke diagnosis code, leading to a struggle for continued care and authorization. The user is seeking advice on navigating the insurance process amidst ongoing denials and appeals.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: insurance denial, appeal process, care navigation
Options Suggested: request reconsideration, generate new authorization, consult with a treatment plan clinician
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with an ongoing appeal for insurance coverage for their mother's therapy.
Original Post: This is my first time posting in this subreddit and not sure exactly if this is the right place but worth a try. 

**long post looking for advice **

My mom (65) had a stroke ~4 months ago. 

She was admitted to the hospital and discharged to an SNF for rehab and PT. She got sick with pneumonia soon after and was admitted to the hospital for weeks. After being discharged back to the SNF she soon got Covid and went back to the hospital — but this time when she was discharged, the hospital did not include a stroke diagnosis code so even though she needed to continue rehab, insurance denied the auth because therapy was deemed not necessary because they didn’t see that she had a stroke. 

The hospital care manager then discharged her back to the facility as long term care and since thing I have been in a constant battle with insurance. 

My mom has ultimately only received ~ 20 therapy sessions in the whole 4 months of rehab and insurance is ending coverage. Majority of those sessions were after the Covid stay and because she was not on a skilled authorization she was only getting treatment 3 days a week. 

She has not exhausted days, but she has not shown massive improvement yet because for so long her body was recovering from pneumonia/covid — and I really think the Covid stay messed things up but the hospital (though I talked to them about this) never attempted to rectify things. 

I have talked to all the social workers, I have talked to insurance, I have talked to the hospital and everyone keeps sending me in circles. The doctor is useless as well because he is completely unresponsive during all of this which sucks because it’s hard navigating this alone… 

I’m at the point where I am trying to devise a plan to bring my mom home and give her therapy myself but for the amount of care she needs idk if that is even smart. I also don’t want to keep her in a facility if she isn’t getting therapy — they don’t do any treatment or range of motion in between sessions so if she isn’t getting therapy she isn’t doing anything. 

I don’t know if there are any other options to consider for insurance. I appealed the last covered day and they denied the appeal that very next day. 

I want to request a reconsideration, but I fear we are in an endless loop of denials and appeals. Without the know-how of navigating insurance I’m truly lost but I don’t want to give up yet if there are other things to consider. 
