Thread ID: 1hm95yh
Title: Unsure about procedure for a claim I know will be rejected
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1735161184
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not covered due to policy exclusions
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: The user is seeking guidance on how to navigate the insurance claim process for sperm banking prior to HRT, anticipating denial due to policy exclusions related to gender dysphoria. They are unsure of the steps to take to ensure proper procedure and potential appeal options.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: insurance claim process, gender dysphoria exclusions, appeal procedures
Options Suggested: contact insurance for guidance, ensure in-network provider, request official denial in writing
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with an impending claim denial and is looking for specific procedural guidance.
Original Post: I'm attempting to bank sperm prior to HRT and get it covered by UHC. The fertility section says that sperm banking is covered when a medical treatment will cause infertility (as HRT does), but under the gender dysphoria section there is a carveout stating that it is explicitly not covered prior to HRT. It is my understanding, as well as that of several advocacy groups and a lawyer, that this constitutes illegal discrimination by proxy as trans people are a protected class in my state. I know my claim will be rejected when I file it, are there any steps I should take before getting the procedure done to ensure that I'm able to either have them relent on appeal or that they can't claim I didn't follow procedure in the event that it comes to a legal case? I don't even really know how to navigate getting insurance to cover things under normal circumstances as I'm only 21 and my parents have always done it beforehand so all I have to do is schedule appointments. My dad is the one who usually handles this stuff, and he's also not really supportive of my transition, so I can't really go to him. I can and will call the insurance company for help on the general procedure, but I'm skeptical of how helpful they'll be. Could I, under normal circumstances, just go get something done and then file a claim afterwards and that's that? How does filing a claim work? I'm sorry if a lot of these questions are basic, I haven't been able to find sufficient answers on the internet and one of the ways my autism presents is I tend to need very specific instructions for bureaucratic stuff.
