Thread ID: 1hdlgxz
Title: Anthem &amp; Irythm Discrepancy
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1734121681
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Out of network
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is facing a claim denial from Anthem for a Zio heart monitor, which is being classified as out of network despite assurances of no financial responsibility. They are seeking advice on how to appeal this decision.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Insurance coverage confusion, Financial responsibility issues, Appeal process guidance
Options Suggested: Verify network status with Anthem, Contact iRhythm for clarification, Utilize the No Surprises Act hotline
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to appeal a claim denial, indicating a perfect fit for the persona.
Original Post: Hello, over the summer I contracted COVID for the first time and have been dealing with long COVID symptoms ever since and have seen a variety of specialists. My Cardiologist wanted me to wear a zio patch heart monitor for two weeks to try to see what was going on with my heart rate skyrocketing post infection. I have an Anthem PPO plan. iRhythm sent me a letter that stated "We will work with your insurance company to understand your coverage for the Zio services. Depending on your insurance plan". I called and verified with someone on the phone at Zio that my financial responsibility was $0. There was a short timeline between this window and receiving my device that was already mailed out, plus the timely visit of my next Dr. app that would examine the results of the monitor. Now the claim is coming back as covered, but out of network and towards my OON deductible. I've kept my care in network and have maxxed out my in network deductible and out of pocket max, but nowhere near meeting my out of network deductible. I'm so frustrated because I was told that I would have no financial responsibility, am chronically ill, and am losing so much money to medical bills. Being out of network wasn't flagged for me. I call Anthem all of the time to check if things are in order and called irhythm again to verify, and here we are again. Any ideas on what I should do to appeal to get this claim paid for?
