Thread ID: 1jk20ks
Title: Why has my insurance stopped covering my medical expenses all of sudden.
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1742957739
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Claim denials for copays and unexpected bills
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is frustrated with BCBS for suddenly increasing costs and denying coverage for previously covered services, leading to significant medical bills and confusion over their insurance plan details.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Insurance coverage confusion, High medical bills, Plan changes and denials
Options Suggested: Contact insurance for clarification, Review Explanation of Benefits (EOB), Seek assistance from HR or an insurance agent
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help and clarification regarding their insurance denials and billing issues.
Original Post: Is there something going with BCBS, or something? All of a sudden BC has decided to stop covering things that we have always covered… it’s taken me 2 years but I’m about to absolutely lose it. 
2 years ago, is really where my issues began as that’s when I really needed my insurance. I was paying BCBS $700 a month, to have a $25 copay, $1,500 deductible, and they were to pay 80% of hospital bills until deductible was met. Well 2 years ago I was pregnant, my OB office was in network, after my first visit my OB slapped a $4,000 bill at claiming that was my portion owed for their “services” I was told that I needed to have that paid off before I gave birth. Okay.. whatever I guess. I struggled hard but I paid it off. 
During this time I’m having major issues with my mobility, so I now have to go to PT, also an  in network provider. I got slapped with a $1,425 bill for 5 months of physical therapy… ah okay. I paid the minimum owed and that was paid off after a year. 
I was going into early labor told I needed to go to the ER asap, mind you my health deductible is PAID! I got hit was a $650 ER bill! ER was able to “stop” the labor. 
A few more weeks go by, it’s now time to deliver my son. I got hit with a $2,650 bill for my “portion”, my son got hit with $5,675 because his “deductible” wasn’t met.. okay well again my deductible is $1,500, and my “family” deductible is $3,000. 
Today I am still paying off these bills, now I’m getting slapped in face from a 3rd party for a bill of $8,700 for the “attendance” of his birth…. Excuse me! 

Now let’s jump forward to last year 2024. Same insurance company, same coverage however now my monthly premium is actually $850 (just for myself). The first half of the year no issues, the second half I see my primary doctor twice, my copay is $25. I pay my copay and move on, now my primary doctor is claiming that I owe then $50 for  both of those visits. I argue with them, show them my receipt to prove that I paid my $25. BC denied $25 for each visit now claiming that I have a $50 copay, yet has failed to provide me with any documentation of this “change”. 

New year benefits elections come up, to continue with the same coverage it would now be $900 a month for just me. I have decided that I can’t do this anymore, I’m struggling to pay off my son’s bills from giving birth. So I choose to stay with BCBS but have a higher copay of $50, a higher deductible of $3,000 but still cover 80% of hospital expenses and such. I just went to the doctor last month, my SAME primary care that I have been with this whole time. They tell me that my copay is now $50 which I knew, get my care and move on my marry way. I’m now getting slapped with a $150 doctors visit bill. So essentially this visit would have costed $200, the whole visit itself costed $243. So BC only paid $43 of this visit. 

I am tired. I am angry. Someone please tell me why the F BCBS is neglecting their duty to pay for these claims! Why the F am I paying them so much money for X coverage yet they won’t hold up their end of the deal.
