Thread ID: 1kt91y7
Title: Applying for a long term disability claim, terrified it’s going to get denied.
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1747968502
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Preexisting condition
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: The original poster is seeking advice on applying for long-term disability insurance due to a recent neck injury, expressing concern about potential denial based on a previous similar condition.
Responses Summary: Commenters advised the OP to disclose all medical information and check the effective date of their insurance policy, noting that prior conditions may impact the claim depending on when the policy was initiated.
Themes: Long-term disability claims, Preexisting conditions, Insurance policy details
Options Suggested: Disclose all medical history, Check policy effective date, Consult with a legal expert
Fit Explanation: The OP is currently facing a potential denial and is actively seeking advice on how to navigate the claims process, indicating a very good fit for assistance.
Original Post: Hi new friends. I don’t usually post, but I don’t know anyone with experience with this. I work a pretty physical job taking care of patients in a hospital so I have long term disability insurance because that was a smart thing to do. 

So now I’ve been out of work since February due to non-work related herniated cervical disc that has created a lot of pain, weakness, and loss of sensation left arm. It’s improved a lot with treatment, but surgery is not completely off the table so I haven’t been cleared to return to work. I’m filing a claim with my LTD insurance as the waiting period is over and my paid leave is about to be used up in about a week. 

My worries: in one section it states that I will be disqualified if I have had this condition has been present or treated within 12 months of the onset of this one (which it was not) but I will also be disqualified if this is a “preexisting condition” or if I withhold any medical information. I had a similar but much less severe episode in 2021 in my other arm that did not require me to miss work. I have to disclose that, and I’m terrified it’s going to disqualify me and I’ll enter no income limbo. My family is pretty dependent on my income. 

Any thoughts from anyone?


TLDR: I’m a delicate princess that had a neck injury in 2021 that wasn’t a big deal, and now I have to apply for a LTD claim because I have a new but similar neck injury that is a big deal this time and I can’t work. I have to provide that info and I’m dreading the “preexisting condition” denial. Cue all the stress while I live on savings. 
