Thread ID: 1kdgzmq
Title: Appeals
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1746234459
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Out of network
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is facing repeated denials from their Medicare Advantage plan for necessary surgeries due to out-of-network issues, leading to frustration and severe health impacts.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: surgery delays, insurance appeal process, out of network issues
Options Suggested: switch to Straight Medicare, consider a Medigap policy, contact Medicare providers for assistance
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help regarding their appeal and is currently dealing with ongoing denials.
Original Post: I’m male,66 years old, and have a gross yearly income of $75k. I live in California.
My Medicare Advantage plan dropped my current surgeon and hospital after surgery date was made. All preop testing completed. This is the second time I’ve worked with a surgeon, got close to my surgery date only to have my pre approval turned around because out of network surgery was approved then not. 
The insurance had me go to this new surgeon and hospital that is now out of network as of March 4th. I’m told I now need to call my Medicare providers 24 hours before my appointments to make sure they are still in network before I go to see them. I appealed this decision I had the appeal overturned, but lost my upcoming surgery date. Please bear with me I’m not all that familiar using this platform and will probably be deleted, but I’m so frustrated I have to get this out. 
My backstory is right hip total replacement. First, and revision failed. I’m now left with an antibiotic spacer where my right hip use to be. The surgeon  I was referred to by the surgeon that failed the THR and the revision, removed my prosthesis. As I was ready to proceed with a custom made prosthesis to replace the antibiotic spacer my MA denied coverage due to out of network and was transferred to this new surgeon.  Two years later I’ve relied on the left hip so much it is now dislocated and needs to be replaced before I can have a new prosthesis in the right hip. This surgery could have been done a year ago if the MA hadn’t denied me coverage and made me start the whole process over again. Now that everything is in order and two weeks away from left THR I’m denied again and referred to a different hospital no surgeon yet to start the whole process over again. That and now they are refusing to pay for X-rays performed by this last surgeon that they already approved. Anyway, I had the appeal reversed, but the medical group I’m in are dragging their feet and trying to reverse the appeal I have already had reversed. My surgery date had to be canceled because of this and I can’t get rescheduled until I get a letter of agreement which the medical group is refusing to supply.                                          The pain I’m experiencing is off the charts. No pain medication except over the counter pain patches. I am now confined to a wheelchair. I can no longer walk, stand, take a shower by myself, drive, shop, or sleep.                                     Do I have any recourse? Any options other than starting the process over again, waiting another year for surgeon to have an opening and all testing redone again? Are they just waiting me out to see if I die before surgery so they won’t have to pay?
