Thread ID: 1k8iyvf
Title: Blind with no income, sudden onset numbness - is ER visit okay without insurance? (44F Arizona)
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1745690198
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Medicaid denial due to insufficient proof of income
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: A 44-year-old woman in Arizona, recently denied Medicaid, is seeking advice on whether she can visit the ER without insurance due to sudden onset numbness and concerns about financial impact on her family.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Emergency care access, Financial assistance options, Medicaid application process
Options Suggested: Visit a non-profit ER, Request financial assistance, Consult a hospital social worker
Fit Explanation: The individual is actively seeking reassurance and advice regarding an ER visit and navigating insurance denial.
Original Post: Hi everyone, please forgive me if I mistype or leave anything important out; I'm substantially vision impaired and worried, need reassurance before being taken to ER as I'm uninsured and recently denied Medicaid due to not sufficiently proving I have no income.

As of two weeks ago, I've been experiencing sudden onset numbness in my face and left side of my body, though missing some of the hallmark stroke factors (no cognitive, memory, or speech issues). Numbness had been reducing, but is back with a vengeance today and now accompanied with left abdominal tightness. No pain, just numbness and constant feeling of compression. I'm 44F and live in southern Arizona.

I applied for AHCCCS (Medicaid) last month but was denied; I filled out the online form as accurately as I could, stated $0 income and ticked the boxes for "being helped by family" and "living off savings/credit". By necessity I live with my parents, but they do not claim me as a tax dependent, so I was advised to state "household of 1" on the form. I lost my small business (online sales, solo self-employed) during COVID, then my whole family caught it, and while in recovery my eyesight started deteriorating. In December 2023 I was diagnosed with severe cataracts and legal blindness, and given  advice about waiting to apply for Medicaid in lieu of seeking SS. (Waited over a year, application "got lost", and I finally just went ahead with the AHCCCS application last month, but I don't know what went wrong or what I missed. Trying to navigate this while blind has been a struggle to say the least!)

So here's my worry: am I allowed to visit a non-profit ER here in Arizona without insurance and a recent (hopefully in error) Medicaid denial, if I'm not yet suffering a life threatening event? And because my step dad will have to go with me due to my vision impairment, will living with and depending on my parents' help potentially impact them financially, or cause me to be denied financial assistance?

My parents are worried about me, but their anxiety and hesitation about taking me to the ER (because of lack of money or insurance) weighs on me a lot. They both have Tricare and Medicare, so they're just as unfamiliar as I am about getting medical care while uninsured. From my research, these symptoms could possibly be anything from a lingering pinched nerve, to a stroke or MS... So I'm worried and stressed, and I don't know what to do. 

Just looking for reassurance and advice for how to navigate this uninsured issue. The last thing I want to do is make the wrong choice and unfairly financially impact my family because I went in flying blind (pun intended). I probably should have sought out help with the application at the time, but with everything going on with social services in the US right now, and the impossibility of getting anyone on the phone, I thought that if I had *any* sight left, I should just do it myself rather than seeking out an advocate. Lesson learned. I'm sorry this is so lengthy, and thank you to anyone who can offer any advice!
