Thread ID: 1hmmaat
Title: Any tips for a denied surgery?
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1735211398
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Outside of plan benefits
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is facing a denial for a necessary surgery due to their insurance claiming it falls outside of plan benefits, despite previous approvals for the same procedure. They are seeking advice on how to appeal the denial and navigate the insurance process.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Insurance denial process, Appeal strategies, Communication with healthcare providers
Options Suggested: Contact HR for assistance, Gather documentation from previous surgeries, Request a conference call with the insurance company
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to appeal their surgery denial and is frustrated with the insurance process.
Original Post: I was denied for surgery (that I've had twice before and will always need every 10 years or so) with BCBS through an employer. They didn't use the term "medical necessity" but instead claimed it was from prior elective surgeries that weren't reimbursed. The surgeries weren't with BCBS but they were paid for. Therefore the surgery falls "outside of plan benefits." Uh what? Why? To make it harder to appeal?

I got my old surgeon (she saw me through the surgeries I've had so far but she's retired) to give me all the old correspondence with insurance as well as medical records to attach to the appeal. My current surgeon won't even write a letter!! His nurse claims that since the denial was based on it not being within plan benefits, they can't write an appeal letter. We all know that's not true. It even says it on the appeal. 

The number to call on the appeal goes to a dept who has 0 clue why you were denied or what to do about it. She suggested I talk with the benefits dept. What are THEY going to do? Everyone is happy to transfer you to someone else. 

Also, it really pisses me off when you try to feel better by complaining to a friend, and they say "oh, sucks, you need to get some different insurance!" It's literally the only plan through the provider, and I have to take their crap plan (through a hospital!) Bc I wouldn't (technically) be able to get subsidies through the Marketplace if I have access to employer healthcare. I wonder how often they check that...

I've heard there's a magic phrase that works well to uphold appeals. I've blanked on it though. Are there any tips? I think I'm supposed to demand some kind of conference? Also, am I screwed bc my current surgeon won't write the damn appeal letter? It's the difference between $500 and $9000. I know other ppl have far worse stories. 
