Thread ID: 1kyj9ko
Title: Anthem Healthkeepers
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1748545647
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: No prior authorization
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The original poster is seeking advice on how to efficiently request HMO authorizations from PCPs for specialty visits, as many offices are unfamiliar with the process.
Responses Summary: Commenters suggest ensuring that authorizations are obtained before scheduling appointments and emphasize the importance of understanding HMO requirements for specialist visits.
Themes: Authorization process, Communication challenges, HMO requirements
Options Suggested: Improve communication with PCPs, Educate staff on HMO processes, Use Availity more effectively
Fit Explanation: The original poster is actively dealing with insurance denials and is looking for solutions, indicating a strong fit for assistance.
Original Post: I work at a specialty provider office in Virginia. Our billing department states that any patient with Anthem Healthkeepers HMO (including Medicare Advantage, excluding Medicaid/Cardinal Care) requires their insurance selected PCP to check if an HMO authorization is required for specialty visits. This can and should be done through Availity.

Without this documentation from the PCP/Availity, Anthem may deny payment for specialty visits. We have had a few patients slip through and their claims have been denied.

It’s now my job to request these authorizations from the PCP and have the patients sign a waiver if they do not have one on file.

The problem is, when I make this request from the PCP offices, 75% have no clue what I’m asking for or how to utilize Availity. A handful of offices have been great and were already familiar with the process. More often than not, no authorization is required.

I’ve read through so many Anthem articles to see if there is anyway I can determine if an authorization is needed but I’m not getting anywhere. I wish there was a way to cut out the PCP and check if one is required for specialty visits myself.

Another issue I run into is that the insurance selected PCP is often someone the patient has never seen, doesn’t know, etc. In these scenarios, I refer the patient to contact the healthplan to update to their actual PCP but then I still have to go through the request process.

Currently, I fax the request to the PCP with a detailed layout of what we need from them via Availity along with the last visit note, records, etc. I also call the offices but they often get frustrated (because they don’t understand what I need and say they’ve never been asked this before, etc) and tell me to just fax the request over so they can review further. I typically don’t get any kind of follow up from the PCP.

Does anyone have any suggestions on how to be more efficient with this process from the specialist end? Or how can I explain it better to the PCP and/or patient so that they understand what I’m needing?


