Thread ID: 1kat6u9
Title: Problem with getting insurance to pay a hospital bill
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1745946476
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Delayed billing
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user has been struggling for over a year to get their insurance to pay for a hospital bill due to multiple billing errors and denials, and is now seeking advice on next steps, including potential legal representation.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: billing errors, insurance denial, legal representation
Options Suggested: contact HR for assistance, file a complaint, seek legal representation
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with their ongoing insurance denial issue and is looking for advice on how to proceed.
Original Post: I’m going to try to be very concise about this, but this has been going on for over a year now. Please feel free to ask questions. Back in December 2023, I was hospitalized in the state of Maine. I have been transferred from my local hospital to a larger hospital with a nephrology department. In March of that year, I had had a major surgery, so I had met my max out of pocket, and this hospital stay should have been covered at 100%. When I was first transferred, my local hospital sent the wrong insurance information for some reason with my face sheet and medical records that went down with me. So I received a bill from that hospitalization for a little over $26,000 saying that my insurance (which was not actually my insurance) and denied payment. I called the hospital, updated my insurance information, and emailed them a copy of the correct insurance card.

They proceeded to bill my correct insurance, but for some reason, this insurance denied payment. When I spoke to the hospital again, I discovered that they had it listed under the wrong subscriber name. The insurance was through my husband, through his employment, but for some reason they had me listed as subscriber. They updated that information. Well I still had the hospital representative on the phone, we went through all of my other information that they had on file, and it seemed as though everything was correct. So they rebilled the insurance again, and again my insurance denied payment for some reason.

Over the past year, I have received bills from this hospital every few months. I have called them every time I have received a bill, and I’ve also had multiple three-way calls between the hospital and my insurance company to try to get this resolved. The last call that I had between myself the hospital and my insurance company, it had been over a year past my hospital stay. However, during that last three-way call, there was a discussion about this fact. The insurance representative stated that the hospital simply had to send proof that they had been trying to bill over the past year in order to get it covered, and then the insurance would pay. Today I received another bill from the hospital saying that insurance again denied payment because it was outside that year and they now consider it delayed billing.

At this point, I feel I have advocated for myself as much as I can. So now my question is, what should my next steps be? Should I be seeking legal representation in this matter? If so, how do I go about finding the right lawyer? Also, I had to file for disability in September 2023, so I don’t exactly have the money to be able to put into legal representation either. I am seeking any kind of advice and help that I can find here.

Edit: I have read everybody’s suggestions on this post and on the same post I made in another sub. This is what’s happening now, and hopefully this resolves the issue.

So I had searched through all of my EOB‘s. I didn’t post them, because I simply couldn’t find any EOB that listed the hospital I was admitted to. Well, except for the very last one, which stated it was denied for delayed billing. But, as I said, it wasn’t delayed at all. It just wasn’t getting paid. On someone’s suggestion, my husband went to his HR department and told them the situation. Although I didn’t have any EOB‘s regarding that hospital bill, she could see the claims made by the hospital on her end, and saw that none of them were paid. Hubs is bringing all the bills, with all of my notes from all of my phone calls into them tomorrow, and they are going to work on my behalf with the insurance company to get this covered. My notes include reference numbers for all of the phone calls that I’ve had with insurance and the hospital. She will handle it from this point on. I am still going to keep copies of everything though, just in case.
