Thread ID: 1ka6oto
Title: How to handle limitations on second/third opinion
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1745874588
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Unknown
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: The user is seeking advice on how to navigate insurance coverage for multiple surgical opinions while avoiding financial pitfalls, as they are unsure about the necessity of follow-up appointments with two surgeons.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: surgery, second opinion, insurance coverage
Options Suggested: consult with insurer, cancel follow-up appointments, seek local surgeon
Fit Explanation: The user is currently facing a denial risk related to insurance coverage for surgical opinions, indicating a very good fit for assistance.
Original Post: I need to make sure I don't get myself into financial trouble here and don't even want to talk to my insurer until I understand what I should say. I have a health problem that will definitely require surgery, but we don't yet know exactly what the problem is or what type of surgery will be best for it. 

1. Went to Big City Surgeon A who ordered MRI. Followup telehealth is scheduled for 4/29 to discuss report.

2. Had MRI.

3. Then went to Big City Surgeon B who is trained differently and uses different techniques. MRI results were not back yet. Followup telehealth is scheduled for 4/30 to discuss report. 

4. MRI results are now back.

I thought I would be choosing between these two surgeons but now realize that I just do not have the financial or logistical support I need to have this surgery in Big City. I want to consult with a surgeon closer to home. In the past when I have asked my insurer about second opinions, they have told me their policy is they will cover a second opinion, and if it conflicts with the first, they will cover a third. I don't actually have an "opinion" from either of these surgeons yet. I don't want to get stuck with the bill for one of them if I try to move to a third surgeon closer to home or be denied coverage for the third surgeon to actually do the procedure. How do I manage this situation?  Do I cancel these followup appointments? Ideally I would like to hear what they have to say but I don't want to get stuck with a huge bill for it or somehow not have the third, closer-to-home surgeon covered.
