Thread ID: 1jj42x8
Title: Frustrated and confused, I keep getting sent in circles because doctor billed the wrong insurance 2 years ago
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1742855639
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Out of network
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is frustrated over a $410 bill due to their doctor billing the wrong insurance, leading to confusion and stress about debt collections and insurance coverage.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: billing issues, insurance confusion, communication failures
Options Suggested: contact insurance for clarification, file a complaint against the doctor's office, seek assistance from a consumer advocacy group
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help regarding their insurance denial and is currently dealing with the consequences of the situation.
Original Post: I "owe" 410 dollars for a visit I went to Februrary 9'th, 2023. Absolutely no attempt was made to inform me of this until November of last year, Not a single person told me about it when I went in for other appointments, the doctors app said I owed nothing, no emails, no phone calls, just suddenly being bombarded with debt collections.

This is apparently, because my insurance from Florida had failed to remove me from their plan fast enough, and although I had already received my Virginia medicaid card and benefits packet from aetna, apparently, Cigna was my ""main"" insurance, so they billed Cigna.

I never GAVE this doctor my cigna information, I don't know how they got it. they never told me they were billing cigna. I applied for medicaid before the renewal period in november. And had already called cigna to cancel...twice. Apparently though, they only removed me from their plan on february 15th. I had absolutely no way of knowing this, since I called them in december AND january and was told I was removed...I only found out a week ago from aetna support.

I called the doctor, who told me to call billing, I called billing, they basically said we don't give a shit call aetna. I called aetna, they told me they weren't billed as the primary insurance and I need to call cigna. I call cigna, they can't do anything because the doctor was not in florida and is out of coverage.

Even WORSE, is that I was pressured into getting several useless vaccines (std prevention even tho I'm not active, flu shot, covid vaccine) and told "it was free so there was no point in not getting them" THE ONLY THING I wanted was a medication renewal. Had they only done that, my bill would have only been 150 instead of 410.

I feel like I have been lied too and tricked, especially given that they had multiple ways of contacting me and chose not to do so. This wasn't a "oops the claim was denied unexpectedly" it was "we billed an insurance that was undoubtedly not in our network, without telling you, and then billed you for it, also without telling you."

I'm currently waiting for cigna to physically mail me their benefits that I then have to email to aetna, but I'm not convinced this will help. I'm getting stressed, my credit has tanked and I am a minimum wage worker. Am I wrong to believe this is the fault of the doctors office? Yet they absolutely refuse to even acknowledge the situation. 
