Thread ID: 1i2r147
Title: DON'T USE SUMMIT HEALTH BLOOD LABS - NEVER SIGN THEIR WAIVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Subreddit: medicalbill
Created: 1737040254
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The original poster is expressing frustration over being billed for blood tests after signing a waiver at Summit Health Blood Labs, despite the tests being deemed medically necessary by their doctor.
Responses Summary: Commenters clarified that signing the waiver (ABN) is standard procedure for Medicare and that it allows the provider to bill for services that may not be covered, which complicates the billing process.
Themes: Billing issues, Medicare policies, Waiver implications
Options Suggested: File another appeal, Consult an attorney, Contact the BBB
Fit Explanation: The original poster is actively seeking resolution for their denial situation, indicating a very good fit for assistance.
Original Post: DON'T US SUMMIT HEALTH BLOOD LAB AND NEVER SIGN THE WAIVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!



Yes, they suck!



I saw Dr. C in their Morristown, NJ location on 8/26/24 which included annual blood work. They suggested I used their blood lab across the hall. SH asked me to sign a Waiver for certain blood tests that may not be covered. I asked before signing if there was a problem w/payment from Medicare would the doctor do what was necessary to collect this $ on my behalf and I was assured by the office staff they would.  
  
I received an EOB from Medicare stating I  
was responsible for 6 blood test. A Lipid panel, Vitamin D, and 4 tests to  
check Iron and B-12. These blood tests were medically necessary as I have been  
suffering from Vertigo and it was suggest by a Neurologist to check my B12 and  
iron levels.   
  
I called Medicare and was told SH sent the  
bill in wrong. I called SH and asked for a letter of medical necessity be sent  
to Medicare as I have never seen a bill for Lipid (Cholesterol) testing. They  
agreed the claim was incorrectly filed and they resent claim. I received an  
invoice from SH in the meantime. I have had these tests done at Quest in the  
past and never saw a bill, even when I signed a Waiver. I called Medicare again  
and they said they can't just send claim in again I would have to file an appeal,  
so I did. SH sent in a the first letter of medical necessity which only covered  
the Vitamin D and B12. Medicare did pay the Vitamin D test but not the others.  
I received another invoice from SH and called again, spoke with Megan in the  
Morristown office. She said she would help get this straighten out. I explained  
that Medicare said to have the doctor call Medicare Plan "B" to find  
out how to resolve this. She asked me for the phone number and I told her  
Medicare wouldn't give it to me. They sent in a second letter of Medical  
necessity addressing the Lipid panel and the 3 iron tests, Medicare only paid  
the Lipid tests. I am still responsible for $181 for the other 4 tests. Their  
billing dept has no clue on how to bill these tests and because I signed a Waiver,  
which they shared with Medicare, neither one feels the need to get these bills  
paid because SH knows they will get paid by me and Medicare knows I signed a  
Waiver. On 1/15/25 I called both Medicare and SH, I waited on hold for over 20  
minutes for Megan and then someone picked up the phone, put me back on hold and  
the next thing I hear is a survey and I hung up. Medicare referred to the  
Waiver I signed. I then called SH billing dept. and was on hold for another 30  
minutes only to be told they can't do anything since I signed the Waiver. I  
asked for a supervisor at SH told me there is nothing I can do. Medicare said I  
can file another appeal but SH won't do it. I pay over $650 a month for health  
insurance with Medicare and am 70 years old. I don't think this is fair. I will  
never use SH blood lab again and will never sign another Waiver. I and going to  
an attorney and have already filed a complaint with the BBB. I think it's  
disgraceful. Don't ever sign those Waivers because that gives Medicare and SH a  
way out. Better yet, don't use Summit Health blood labs!!!  
  
  

