Thread ID: 1jty41s
Title: Job Blocks Billing Company To Not Pay Workers Comp Bill!! Help Needed!
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1744064624
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Workers' compensation not paid due to lack of insurance coverage
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is facing multiple medical bills after a work-related injury, with complications arising from their employer's workers' compensation not covering the costs due to a lack of insurance at the time of the incident.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: workers' compensation issues, insurance denial, financial assistance challenges
Options Suggested: contact workers' comp regulator, consult a workers' comp attorney, explore additional payment plans
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to resolve their current financial burden from medical bills related to a work injury.
Original Post: On March 7th, 2024 I had a burn from being pushed into boiling water at work which resulted in me being taken to the ER. I was given a list of medical facilities that would take my job’s insurance, however, all of these places were closed (I worked night shift) it was 10-10:30pm and I ended up going to Bon Secours in VA. I was there for a few hours and was treated for my burn. I gave them my jobs information (Bojangles) so they could bill them for works compensation. I gave Bojangles all of the required paperwork from my visit so they could give it to HR and have their insurance take care of it. A few days after my burn I found out that I lost coverage from Medicaid on February 29th, 2024 (8 days before the burn). I quit my job at Bojangles the next month in April. A few months later I get a bill for $1171.00 from the ER. I called and they told me that they had been calling Bojangles every day for a few months and finally they got blocked by Bojangles HR or their insurance (Not sure which one they needed to go through). During that time I moved out of my house and into a dorm at college and couldn’t find the paperwork that I gave to Bojangles as evidence. After a few more months of trying to get Bojangles to pay I finally gave up and finally got my Medicaid insurance back (They kept denying me for making $200 too much). Around this time I received ANOTHER bill from Bon Secours themselves for another $1280.40. I called and they told me they were separate bills from the ER (Vituity) and Bon Secours. I applied for medical assistance for the Bon Secours bill because on my Medicaid application I asked for my Vituity bill to be paid because I didn’t know about the 2nd bill yet. I sent in my new insurance information and I was told it was paid. I got denied for medical assistance because I didn’t do it within the time period of receiving the bill because I was trying to get Bojangles to pay for it during that time. I accepted that the Bon Secours bill would be on me because I didn’t know about it during my insurance application process and only put the first bill to be paid by Medicaid, so I started a 24 month payment plan (2 minths ago). Fast forward to now I receive another bill from Vituity saying Medicaid denied payment on it even though it said it was paid in full. I called Medicaid and they told me that they cannot back date my insurance to pay the bills because I needed to have insurance within 3 months after the date of the ER visit. I couldn’t get insurance until August of 2024 because I became a full time student at VCU and wasn’t making any money as of that month. I’m not sure what else I can do besides adding another payment plan for the Vituity bill on top of the Bon Secours payment plan. Any financial assistance places won’t help me because it’s been over a year. I am a full time student with thousands of dollars in student loan debt and I only work a few days out of the week because that’s the only time I have to work around my school schedule. Is there anything I can do to get out of this or fix this without adding 2k more to my debt that should’ve been paid for by workers compensation?
