Thread ID: 1gqrhod
Title: $60,000 Air Ambulance Bill (Anthem Blue Cross) for my 5 year-old's transport to a children's Hospital (Mercy Flights, Inc)
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1731542318
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Resolved
OP Summary: A mother is seeking advice on how to handle a $60,000 air ambulance bill for her daughter, which Anthem Blue Cross has denied as 'not medically necessary' despite the emergency situation. They have been appealing the denial for over 2.5 years and are facing pressure from the air ambulance company to make a payment.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Insurance denial, Emergency medical transport, Appeal process
Options Suggested: Contact media for assistance, Consult with a lawyer, Engage HR for support
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with an ongoing appeal against a denial from their insurance company, indicating a perfect fit for assistance.
Original Post: Hi, I’m a mom looking for advice on handling an approx. $60,000 air ambulance bill for my 5-year-old daughter. In February 2022, she was admitted to the ER with an "Emergent Severe/life-threatening" status. The hospital couldn’t provide the surgery she needed due to her age, and the fact that their doctors did not have the necessary insurance to treat her. The ER doctors at Asante Medical Center arranged for her to be transported by air ambulance to the nearest Children's Hospital with the right surgical team, which was 300 miles away in Portland, Oregon. A critical care team was on board, as she was also COVID-19 positive at the time. This was winter with below-freezing temperatures in the middle of the night.

Since then, we’ve been appealing this bill with our insurance company (Anthem Blue Cross) for over 2.5 years, but they continue to deny coverage for the air transport, saying it was “not medically necessary.” They did pay for the ground ambulance transport to and from the airport, but they won’t cover the air portion. By them deeming it "not medically necessary" it apparently blocks us or is a loophole to prevent us from protection under the No Surprises Act. Now, the air ambulance company (Mercy Flights, Inc.) has given us 30 days to either make a payment to them, or they’ll send the bill to collections. Mercy Flights is a non-profit company.

We still have one personal appeal left and the option of a third-party appeal with the insurance company, but the air ambulance company (Mercy Flights) won’t wait for the appeal process to finish. I’m concerned that starting payments could imply accepting the debt, but I also don’t want this to damage our credit. We have had several calls, emails, and even an in-person meeting trying to solve this with them, but they are determined to make us make some sort of payment to them or send us to collections.

Does anyone have advice on how to handle this? Since this was an emergency, I wasn’t provided with or able to select service costs. Any insights would be greatly appreciated! We are located in Oregon. Our plan is self-funded by my husband's employer. We are also seeking help from the media with this case if anyone has any contacts/suggestions. Anthem Blue Cross seems to have done this to other families with young children who have also taken their cases to the media. Thanks!

  
Update: After all of the advice we decided to get the Media involved in this situation. Luckily we were able to find an amazing investigative reporter. It was successful and Anthem has agreed to pay the claim now! Our story can be read/viewed at: [https://www.kgw.com/article/news/investigations/air-ambulance-bills-insurance-denials/283-2cc05afb-8099-4786-9d89-a9b2b2df1b52](https://www.kgw.com/article/news/investigations/air-ambulance-bills-insurance-denials/283-2cc05afb-8099-4786-9d89-a9b2b2df1b52)
