Thread ID: 1kkozsw
Title: GeoBlue (expat) claims for lifesaving care
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1747045182
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Benefit limit exceeded, incomplete information
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is struggling with denied claims for emergency childbirth care from GeoBlue, despite the procedures being covered in their policy, and is seeking advice on how to proceed with the appeal process. They feel demoralized by the lack of acknowledgment from the insurance company regarding their claims.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Claim denial, Appeal process, Insurance communication issues
Options Suggested: Contact higher management, Seek legal advice, Gather more medical records
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to appeal the denial of their claims, indicating a perfect fit for assistance.
Original Post: I'm trying to figure out the best strategy for fighting the machine, but it's really challenging and demoralizing. Looking for advice on how to deal with a bunch of emergency care related to childbirth that is clearly covered in my policy, but that GeoBlue won't pay -- but also won't acknowledge why.

In August 2024, we had a (medically necessary) cesarian delivery scheduled, because my wife had previously had a surgery (myomectomy) making natural birth too risky.

During the procedure, there was extreme bleeding that nearly killed her (she flatlined briefly), and put her in the ICU under intubation for 3 days while I cared for our (thankfully healthy) new daughter. She had more than 4 litres of blood transfusions, an extra emergency surgery later in the evening on the same day, which led to an emergency historectomy. It was serious trauma for both of us. After she recovered, we had 3 different doctors of 3 different faiths independently say that her recovery was miraculous, in the "only by the grace-of-G\_d" sense. Anyways, the total bill for the hospital, anesthesia, surgery, ICU, imagery, and labwork, was all mixed up as it was originally planned as a normal delivery and maternity stay, and would have been a litte less than \~$2000 USD all together (yeah, South Africa has great and affordable healthcare) -- but because of complications, I ended up footing out-of-pocket something like $20k+, expecting to get re-imbursed before the end of the month. I submitted every itemized receipt for everything.

But my claims were all denied! I may have incorrectly split related claims from different providers, so I wrapped them all up in a new claim with references to the old ones, and included a cover letter that explained the total expected cost of delivery (which I had intended to just pay out-of-pocket) was not what was being claimed, re-iterating that the itemized receipts show ICU stay, blood transfusions, and two surgeries, none of which are expected maternity expenses. Denied! On the claim of 'benefit limit exceeded' (my policy explicitly states no limits for covered procedures), and 'incomplete information' (no explanation about what kind of information is required).

I initiated an appeal, wrote another comprehensive cover letter contextualizing everything, included a new letter written by the primary doctor/surgeon about the incident, and submitted it. Geoblue states that a reply will be given for an appeal within 30 days. 64 days later, I received a generic email stating that 'complete medical records' were needed to evaluate the appeal. 

I called the customer service line, and asked what 'complete medical records' entails, given that I had already submitted all documents I had ever received (including all itemized receipts, proof-of-payment, labwork, etc). The customer service rep said that they would get back to me and clarify over email. Some weeks later, I received an second generic request for 'complete medical records' -- that was \*exactly\* the same as the original message I called about. Another week later, I received a 'determination' letter which contained a .pdf attachement \*with the same exact generic 'complete medical records' text reply\*. 

At this point I \*still\* have not had any communication from GeoBlue that acknowledges any facts or understanding about the nature of my claims, only that they need more 'medical records' to consider the appeal -- and apparently they refuse to clarify what records could be needed. I have managed to go back to the hospital and dig up some more documents, but I'm worried I'm going to get the same message again, and that they will close the case. 

I'm bleeding interest on a personal loan to cover the hole in my finances, and two extra non-trivial invoices came in after the first submissions (one that I paid and one that I haven't yet because it's too big to cover in one shot and I worry that a partial payment will introduce more ammo for GeoBlue's weaponized incompetence). 

What can I do? How do I get GeoBlue to acknowledge the basic nature of the claim? How do I go about searching for a lawyer to take on a case of bad faith claim evaluation? If I did that, would it be likely I could get back the interest I've lost? Or the claims from later in the year that should not have come out of my deductible?

It seems obvious to me that their strategy is to just wear me down without ever explicitly acknowledging that I'm trying to claim something covered in my policy, and I have to say, it's really working. But I am not going to give up, and I just need some advice on how to respond that will maximize the chance that I'll get back what I've lost. The most infuriating part of this is that I've been a customer since 2019, and have paid more than my claims total in premiums as a customer. It's such a rigged game. 

If you've made it this far, thanks for listening to my story. My wife and child are both healthy and happy, so at least there's that. Could've been much worse. 
