Thread ID: 1kqun7p
Title: Told by clinic the wellness check is for free but got a 1000 bill
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1747709908
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Not following preventative care guidelines
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The original poster is seeking help after receiving a $1104 bill for a wellness check that was initially stated to be free by the clinic's front desk staff.
Responses Summary: Commenters advised the OP to check their insurance benefits guide, negotiate the bill, and be persistent with the clinic and lab for potential reductions or financial assistance.
Themes: miscommunication about coverage, negotiation strategies, understanding insurance benefits
Options Suggested: check insurance benefits guide, negotiate bill with clinic, ask for financial assistance
Fit Explanation: The OP is currently dealing with a denial and is actively seeking advice on how to address the situation, indicating a very good fit for assistance.
Original Post: Hi everyone, I’m a little desperate right now, and I need some help/suggestions/ advice, I was hoping if anyone have similar situation that would know, or I’m just in a dead end.

First of all, I am an international student, I am enrolled in United Health Care Student Resource Plan. I went to an in-network doctor visit back in January 2025. While being there, the front desk lady asked me if I would like to do a wellness check is “for free”. I double checked with them again and she confirmed yes, is “for free”. So they took some samples from me and send it to their lab. 

I guess everyone is reading now can guess what happened. 

After 3 months I received a $780 bill from the lab. I called the insurance company, the clinic, and the lab as soon as I saw the bill, and insurance company told me is the clinic submitted the wrong code, thats why they only cover a small portion of it. I told the clinic what happened, they resubmitted the code again. 
Fast forward to today, I received a new bill that now is $1104, this time the insurance company denied the claim. 
I was very shocked and confused, I called UnitedHealthCare again, and they told me the clinic did not follow their preventative care guidelines, that’s why they denied it. I called back to the clinic, told them what happened, but they were not really helpful and their response was very vague. 

I really don’t know what else I can do. The front desk lady told me the wellness check is for free that’s why I did it, otherwise I would never do this… I don’t want to pay the $1104 since I am not responsible for their mistakes. Is there anything I can do? 

I’m very new to the America healthcare system and it is driving me crazy. 

Thank you! 
