Thread ID: 1kflcba
Title: Husband's dental coverage was terminated, now we're being asked to pay nearly $3K - any advice greatly appreciated!!
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1746475264
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Not legally eligible for coverage
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The husband's dental coverage was terminated due to his immigration status, leading to a denial of claims for necessary dental procedures, leaving the couple facing a nearly $3,000 bill.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: coverage termination, medical necessity denial, financial burden
Options Suggested: appeal the denial, negotiate with the dentist, seek financial assistance
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking advice on how to handle the denial of coverage and the resulting financial burden.
Original Post: Hello, I hope I can ask about this here even though it's regarding dental insurance. If not, please point me in the right direction as to where I can ask.

My husband and I got married on 12/11/24. He came here on a K1 visa, and he currently is unable to work because he's waiting on his green card. I normally renew my insurance through Marketplace every year, as my small employer doesn't offer insurance. ACA has been great for me for many years. This year's renewal was different, because I had a life change (got married), and now that I was considered a 2-person household and my husband wasn't working, they bumped me to Medicaid. It wasn't "straight" Medicaid, but a higher tier, I suppose (I make too much for straight Medicaid, but my income still fell within the limits of this other program). I live in Michigan and here it's called Healthy Michigan.

Once I informed ACA of the life change, it sent me directly over to Healthy Michigan's website and asked me to input mine and my husband's info. I was very upfront and transparent, informed Healthy Michigan that my husband was NOT a US citizen, they asked for proof that he was legal to be here, etc. and I uploaded a copy of his K1 visa as well as his approval letters from USCIS, etc. About a month later, HM sent us both welcome packages, asked us to choose our insurance for medical and dental. We chose Priority Health and the Delta Dental. When we saw how much coverage Delta Dental had, we were both ecstatic because we both had teeth that were in desperate need of attention -- when I say desperate, I mean pain that kept us both up at night, sometimes.

I immediately made appointments for both of us at a local dentist. I checked to make sure that they accepted the HM plan with the Delta Dental network, and they did. We both had our appointment, and walked out with a laundry list of things that needed to be done. For me, lots of cavities, a couple root canals, crowns, the whole 9 yards. For him, they just said he needed his wisdom teeth pulled, a couple cavities, and crowns for his 4 front teeth (he was injured when he was much younger and needed a lot of bonding on his front teeth that had failed over the years - there was no way to restore these, they needed crowns). I did tell the dentist that the sooner we could get started on everything, the better, because once he starts working I don't believe I'll be able to keep the coverage due to higher income. So we got to work and they immediately gave him a deep scaling/cleaning (1 quadrant) and removed the failing bonding and grinded down his front teeth and put temporary crowns on. I too was in the dentist a couple times in a month working on my long list of issues, too. Around March 15th I got a phone call from someone at DHS and she said she was "just helping out her colleague close out some files" and she asked me a few questions for clarification purposes. One of the last questions was "so your husband doesn't have his green card yet?" to which I replied, "no, we sent his adjustment of status paperwork to USCIS, but it's quite a long process and I don't think he'll have it for at least a year". She said, "no problem! that's all I needed to know!" and we hung up. I thought nothing of it. Until about 2 weeks later when I received a letter in the mail stating that his Healthy Michigan coverage was ending 4/1! This literally gave me no time to inform the dentist before April 1st about his termination of coverage. The reason he was dropped was because he didn't qualify as a legal resident/citizen to be receiving the coverage.

While I understand that this is a legitimate reason to DENY coverage at the get-go, I'm disappointed with whoever initially approved him, sent the welcome package to him, only to have it be taken back shortly after, AFTER he started getting his work done at the dentist. I've talked extensively to the office manager at the Dentist about this and she's just as upset as me. In total they covered his initial exam, x-rays and one quadrant of cleaning. They've denied the temporary crowns that were put on, and since his appointment to get the permanent crowns put on was April 7th, Delta has denied the claim because they don't pay out until the "seat date" meaning since they day he'd be getting them put on falls 6 days after his coverage was terminated, the dentist is now looking at me to pay the bill. For the record, he still hasn't got the permanent crowns put on because I can't feel like I can commit to pay over $2,500 for all this work that I was under the impression would be covered. I'm at a loss here.

What I'm curious about, is that we've gotten a TON of mail from Delta, they appear to be CC's that were sent to the dentist as well (denial of coverage for each separate procedure that they won't cover for my husband). I have SO many EOB/denials, and all of them have SO many different denial reasons:

*Policy APUM00001:  For Providers Only - Based on a review of the information provided with this claim, a licensed dentist peer reviewer has determined that this procedure does not meet the dental plan qualifications for medical necessity or appropriateness of care.* 

*Policy APUM27001:|Disapproved because the submitted information does not support medical necessity. A crown (tooth cap) is considered medically necessary and eligible for coverage only when a tooth has extensive (large) loss of tooth structure due to dental caries (tooth decay) or fracture (broken tooth) where a direct restoration (filling) would not be strong enough to keep the tooth from breaking down and a crown is needed to cover and protect the tooth. Because the x-rays and/or photographs sent with this request do not show that this tooth has extensive loss of tooth structure, this procedure was not deemed necessary. This decision is based on the Clinical Criteria for Single Crown Restorations.* 

*Policy APUM29501:|Disapproved because the submitted information does not support medical necessity. A core buildup (a procedure to build a broken tooth back up with a filling material so it can support a crown/cap) is considered medically necessary and eligible for coverage only when a tooth has an extensive (large) loss of tooth structure due to dental caries (tooth decay) or fracture (broken tooth) where not enough tooth is left to support a crown without a buildup. Because the x-rays and/or photographs sent with this request do not show that this tooth has extensive loss of tooth structure, this procedure was not deemed necessary. This decision is based on the Clinical Criteria for Restorative Substructures.* 

*Policy AP17007: This claim has been denied and the patient cannot be billed for services if the dentist is participating. The rendering NPI number of the treating dentist and billing NPI number of the business or service office must be enrolled in the Michigan Community Health Automated Medicaid Processing System (CHAMPS) to bill for services for Healthy Kids Dental, Medicaid and Healthy Michigan Plan. Enrollment can be completed by logging in to MILogintp.michigan.gov. If you need enrollment assistance, please contact CHAMPS Provider Support at 800-292-2550.|*

*Policy MI22005:|Important Notice to Dentist: We are unable to process this claim because the submitted billing NPI does not match the billing NPI at the business or service office in our records. Please resubmit the claim with the dentist's correct billing NPI number, or if you believe the number submitted is correct, contact your local plan so your record may be updated prior to resubmitting this claim.|*

*Policy AP13071: This prior authorization is no longer valid as this service has been completed.|*

Nearly all of them say that the patient cannot be charged if the dentist is a participating provider. I also noticed that for my husbands crowns, they denied it because it wasn't deemed medically necessary. The dentist has not told me any of this, they are only treat it as if we now have to pay out of pocket because his coverage terminated on 4/1 and since he was supposed to get his permanents on 4/7, that's his seat date, and now it won't be covered. I have asked the office manager several times if I should call Delta to try to appeal, and she just keeps saying "we can just set you guys up with a payment plan that works with your budget" - but I'm so incredibly strapped right now, having to pay for two of us while he's waiting to be able to work, no payment plan will fit within my budget! I mean, did his crowns actually get denied because they didn't deem it medically necessary, OR was it because his permanent crown installation seat date falls after 4/1? I feel SUPER deceived that this work was started and then terminated after the crowns were made, and now the dentist is just basically saying, "oh well, now you have to pay us".

Can anyone give me ANY advice, or possibly explain to me what the statement at the bottom of the denials mean regarding the dentist ***not being allowed to charge*** if they're in the Delta network? At this point, his permanent crowns are already made, I can't just send them back, and he can't live with temporaries for the rest of his life. I'm lost!
