Thread ID: 1k72ui8
Title: Next steps after updating coordination of benefits info
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1745527302
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Coordination of benefits issue
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is seeking guidance on next steps after their claim was denied due to outdated coordination of benefits information, which has now been updated.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Claim denial, Coordination of benefits, Next steps for resolution
Options Suggested: Contact previous employer/BCBS, Contact PCP to refile claim, Contact Labcorp to refile claim
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to resolve a claim denial and has already taken steps to update their insurance information.
Original Post: At the end of February I went to my PCP for a yearly physical. I provided my health insurance (UHC Choice Plus through my current employer) to them prior to this appointment. As part of this visit I received a blood test, a cyst was drained, and a culture from the cyst was sent to Labcorp.

  
Fast forward to a few weeks ago I received a notice from Labcorp that my claim was denied due to having other primary insurance. I then proceeded to contact UHC and was able to confirm they believed my BCBS plan with a previous employer was still active, even though it should have ended almost a year ago. In this phone call I went through a coordination of benefits to remedy this.

  
Over the past week or two I have: received a voicemail from UHC stating that the coordination of benefits info has been updated and BCBS is no longer listed, received a bill from Labcorp for the culture, and received a claim summary from BCBS for my visit.

  
What are the next steps to resolve this? Do I need to do all, or some, of the following? Are there any additional steps I need to do to resolve this?

1. Contact my previous employer and/or BCBS to ensure they are aware my plan is mistakenly still active

2. Contact my PCP to have them refile the claim through UHC

3. Contact Labcorp and have them refile the claim through UHC



Thank you in advance for any assistance.
