Thread ID: 1ikdeqo
Title: Prior authorization denied - someone's not doing something right
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1738983764
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user's daughter's prior authorization for hospital admission was denied by Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield, citing 'unspecified calorie nutrition' as not medically necessary despite severe health issues. The user is uncertain whether to intervene or let the hospital handle the appeals process.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Prior authorization issues, Hospital billing practices, Patient advocacy
Options Suggested: Contact the hospital for more accurate information, Monitor the appeals process, Consult with the insurance company
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking advice on how to address the denial and is considering options for intervention, indicating a strong fit for assistance.
Original Post: Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield is the administrator in question (for hospital care). My daughter who had never been to an ER in her life until now got really sick as of Jan 11 and kept getting worse and on her fifth visit she was admitted for six days (details below). The children's hospital filed a prior authorisation request initially for one day and then for the six days. Both prior authorisations were denied. The only reason the hospital used both times was "unspecified calorie nutrition"  (which is a **severe understatement**; see below) which the insurance company said wasn't a medically necessary reason for in-patient admission but as I write in detail below, she was fainting/falling, was completely unable to do anything, was severely dehydrated and lost almost 20 lbs, in intense pain, and other things.  The denial letter says she must have things like seizures, loss of consciousness, organ failure, etc. for such an admission (due to "unspecified calorie nutrition") so the fainting/falling part qualifies.

Given my daughter's condition as described below, people have warned me insurance can be difficult and that they deny a lot. Yet this time it doesn't seem like it's the insurance company: I wonder why the hospital isn't using her full story but just kept going with what I assume is the first reason they came up with  to satisfy insurance reporting requirements (i.e., call within 48 hours or as soon as reasonably possible which my plan says which I did also though they don't say what happens after the call) when they initially admitted her.

I guess I am a bit plugged in too much online, I can see all the process taking place but I wonder if I should do anything or just let the hospital sort it out (per plan rules, hospital has 60 days and I have 120 days to appeal). I tried talking to the doctors about it but they had no idea including the attending doctor whose name is being used in the prior authorisation paperwork. I could go back to the hospital and talk to hopefully the right person and tell them they should get more accurate about her condition or is this just a case of them being busy and they'll get around to it (i.e., they know how to do this properly)? Two other ER visits have already been paid for.

I'm in NY so there are laws like surprise bills and other things in our favor (a while back in another incident, they billed me $2000 out-of-network for an emergency transport between hospitals in the same chain and when I argued I was assured it would be billed in-network and that my plan rules state as much even if the transport provider was out-of-network, they backed down). For us it's clear the hospitals made all these decisions as necessary (and I would even argue from a general efficiency perspective if they had admitted from day one things may have been better and even if not, it would've been fewer trips).

Again I'm writing to ask if I should do anything proactively (beyond just monitoring what's going on) or just be patient and let the process play out. Should I contact the hospital, should I speak to the insurance company directly and would that cause confusion, and so on. If the hospital doesn't get its act together, what are my options? This is just the prior auth, which is no guarantee of anything. Ultimately they file claims (weird this hospital hasn't submitted anything for two trips - even the first time there where they didn't admit her; the other hospital - much closer but not comprehensive, was first time and then for the allergic reaction has been reimbursed already).

Thanks for reading this long post and I sincerely appreciate any thoughts/help/ideas/etc.

FULL DETAILS

My daughter  (17) on Jan 11 started having nausea and vomiting and she couldn't hold down any fluids, not even water even though prior she was fine. She was severely dehydrated and didn't eat for about two weeks total.  In addition, she was having severe pain throughout her body with a focus on abdomen, back, head (eventually). This got so bad she couldn't do anything by herself, we had to dress her, carry her to the bathroom, etc.  We went to urgent care once + the ER five times (again, never been to ER in her life prior). The anti-nausea meds either didn't work (Zofran) or caused a severe allergy lockjaw reaction (Reglan), which was the sole reason for the third ER visit. On the fifth visit on Jan 23 they admitted her for 6 days. They did a huge number of tests on her, including a colonoscopy, endoscopy, CT scans, ultrasound, and a MRI. Lots of blood work. All normal pretty much except for some mild deviations that the doctors didn't seem concerned about.  We went to the ER multiple times because in addition to her dehydration, she was fainting/falling and had injured herself, and she was getting worse but her labs were normal so no admittance. Ultimately for the nausea and vomiting, after three days in-patient, they gave her protonix and erythromycin with the hypothesis of gastroparesis and that helped at least keep stuff down (even though she STILL has nausea and zero appetite but she's forcing herself to eat) which was  properly determinable only at the 5 day mark. Aside from that, she's still unable to walk and we're still carrying her everywhere\*.  We have outpatient visits for various specialists multiple times a week.

On the day of her admission, my daughter was diagnosed with AMPS (amplified musculoskeletal pain syndrome)  by a pediatric rheumatologist but the reason they admitted was even with that diagnosis, she was in crisis due to the fainting, lack of food and water, etc. So it was symptomatic management really they needed to admit her for which they fixed while they also did tests to rule other things out per the hospital's judgement. We couldn't even do what we're doing in terms of going to specialists, etc. since it was that dire.

\*We bought our own wheel chair  from Amazon since we didn't have time to deal with the insurance and the hospital gave a walker (which looks like it was denied as well but that's another topic). My wife hurt her back carrying her and I stubbed my toe. It would be nice for the years of payments we and my employer has made to UHC/Anthem if we didn't have to deal with this hassle and they had better/quicker systems for figuring out who's faking it and who really needs care.

Even more details, my daughter has been complaining about pain for a few years (her PCP did rheumatological tests which came out normal so that referral didn't happen) but she was fully functional until Jan 11. On Jan 10, we went out and she was a happy kid with her friends. So the final deterioration was rather sudden and marked.

Edit: The hospital submitted the full claim ($50K prior to insurance!) with the denied pre-authorization and that was denied as well! There's a lot of other stuff I can see this children's hospital is doing wrong (submitting a medical claim to the hospital administrator, the second ER visit hasn't even shown up yet even though that was 10 days before this one, etc.). UHC has paid out all the separate claims like a walker, MRI, CT, colonscopy, endoscopy, etc.
