Thread ID: 1jw74ij
Title: Insurance logjam - anyone seen this?
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1744314971
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: No prior authorization
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user experienced a retroactive denial of an MRI claim due to a change in insurance coverage from UHC to BCBS, with BCBS also denying the claim for lack of prior authorization.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Insurance transition, Retroactive denial, Prior authorization requirements
Options Suggested: Work with provider for retroactive authorization, Appeal BCBS denial, Contact UHC for clarification
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with their insurance denial situation.
Original Post: 1. I was on COBRA in the month of February through UHC. I got a new job in starting Jan 31st and I picked a new insurance plan February 20th which is Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS).  

2. The BCBS became my primary insurance and back dated my effective coverage starting Feb 1st

3. On Feb 5th I got an MRI which had the proper approvals from UHC.  The claim was paid in full in the amount of $3,500 from insurance. 

4. On Feb 28th, UHC found out that I had new coverage that back dated to Feb 1st and they retroactively denied the Feb 5th MRI and pulled back their $3,500 payment from my provider.

5. My provider called me to tell me the bad news, that my claim was retroactively denied due to UHC being the secondary insurance. 

6. I gave my provider the new insurance information for BCBS and they billed it as my primary insurance.

7. BCBS denied my claim for the MRI stating that I needed a prior authorization for the Feb 5th service.

8. I called BCBS and they informed me that their policy states that I need prior authorization.

9. UHC is saying that they will not pay the claim since they are secondary insurance and the primary insurance denied the claim.  


Since this is not back to the future, and Doc brown isn’t bringing my the DeLorean anytime soon, what do I do? It’s not like my provider could have known to give a prior authorization for insurance I did not have.

Thanks for the help if you know what to do.

Edit: added start date 



