Thread ID: 1krbi46
Title: Denied coverage for our newborn.
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1747763768
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Missed enrollment deadline
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The original poster is seeking advice after being denied health insurance coverage for their newborn due to missing the 30-day enrollment deadline, which has resulted in significant medical bills.
Responses Summary: Commenters suggest escalating the issue through HR, negotiating with the hospital for financial assistance, and exploring Medicaid options, while emphasizing the challenges of the self-funded insurance plan.
Themes: Self-funded insurance challenges, Need for HR intervention, Financial assistance options
Options Suggested: Negotiate with hospital, Contact HR for assistance, Explore Medicaid options
Fit Explanation: The original poster is actively seeking help with a denial situation, indicating a very good fit for the persona seeking assistance with insurance denials.
Original Post: I have United Healthcare, (UMR) as my health insurance provider through my employer. I work in the financial services industry and my company employs over 80,000 people. To make a very long story short, my wife and I had a baby in January of this year. The birth was stressful, (although could’ve been much worse,) and my daughter had difficulty breathing. She ended up spending almost a week in the NICU while she could not sustain breaths on her own. We did end up getting discharged with take home oxygen and had to watch her very closely with a heart rate monitor for several weeks afterward.

During this time I had some leave from work to help care for my wife and other kid. By the time I returned to work, it had been over 30 days since my daughter’s birthdate and totally unbeknownst to me, I had missed the deadline to add my newborn daughter to our health insurance. When I realized the mistake, I called HR right away, and they instructed me to write a letter to outline my request to add my daughter.

Nervously, I type up a letter to UMR on day 40 after my daughter’s birth. I had no idea that there was even a chance of denial at this point. I figured, in what universe would my employers’ health plan not provide coverage for a newborn child simply because I was 10 days late to notify? I understand I made a mistake but I just couldn’t comprehend the idea of being liable for my daughter’s medical bills because of this error.

Fast forward another month, I was told that I’d have an answer by April 27th. Well it’s May 19th and they finally responded and told us that we were denied. The last 2 months have been a nightmare for me mentally and I am still in shock about this whole thing. There is literally nobody I can call. They don’t allow you to speak with the case managers directly, you just have to send in letters asking for updates or a response. Meanwhile, we’re getting sent to collections and our medical bills are totaling around $50,000. This is quite literally going to bankrupt us. This will probably make us foreclose on the house and lose everything.

 I don’t know if I am completely misguided or who I need to direct my anger at, but this just feels so unbelievably unethical to me. Not only the idea of denying coverage for a newborn baby, but the grueling process in which I’m required to appeal with no timeline or direction on which way this could go. Just a continuous limbo mode where I’m stressed out of my mind and have zero control over what will happen. I will most definitely file a second appeal but it’s increasingly looking like we might be screwed.

I’m desperate for some advice or guidance on what to do. In the denial letter, they provided a 1-800 number I can call and leave a voicemail for someone to call me back. I’ve called at least a dozen times and left several voicemails but no response yet. Please help 
