Thread ID: 1kgdncj
Title: Advice needed - Coverage for breast reduction
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1746560461
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not covered due to exclusion clause
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is seeking advice on obtaining insurance coverage for a medically necessary breast reduction surgery, which is currently excluded under their husband's small employer's insurance plan.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: insurance exclusion, medical necessity, options for coverage
Options Suggested: self-pay, find new insurance policy, appeal the exclusion
Fit Explanation: The user is actively pursuing options for insurance coverage for a scheduled surgery, indicating a perfect fit for assistance.
Original Post: I need advice and I don't know where else to get it. I am actively pursuing breast reduction and have a scheduled surgery date for later this year. To me, this is a medically necessary procedure, but I understand that insurance companies do technically view it as elective. 

My husband and I work at the same small company and I am covered as a dependent of his insurance for our family of 4. I know that our policy has the dreaded exclusion clause and my reduction is not covered. This leaves me with the option to self pay- which is technically possible, but obviously not preferred- or to find a policy for myself through marketplace (or elsewhere?). But I'm worried that those premiums plus an individual deductible for myself, plus coming off of our family plan, will not actually mean savings over self pay. I'm not even sure how to find a policy for myself or how to even begin to math this out.

I have a surgery date scheduled of October 20th. I told the surgeon's office that I will probably have new insurance by then and that I would check in with them about any changes. But I legitimately have no idea what to do or where to go for advice. Is anyone aware of any tools or resources? I'm also worried that I could potentially go through this whole process of getting myself separate coverage, and that policy would still deny my reduction.

I am in Missouri USA.
