Thread ID: 1i8h444
Title: Quality: Group vs. Individual Market Policies
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1737674336
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Claims denial rates
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: The discussion revolves around the perceived quality differences between group and individual health insurance policies, particularly in terms of claims approval rates and appeals processes.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Group vs. Individual Policies, Claims Approval Rates, Appeals Processes
Options Suggested: Research individual policy options, Compare denial rates by carrier, Consult with insurance experts
Fit Explanation: The original post indicates a belief that individual policies may offer better claims outcomes, suggesting the user is contemplating the implications of insurance denials.
Original Post: For a long time it has been assumed that group policies are considered superior to individual policies for several reasons:  
1) Wider often times nationwide networks  
2) Larger networks local to the insured (higher percentage of providers in their local market are in network)  
3) Believed to get better value on terms (deductible, co-pay, etc.) even considering the employer's price (before they subsidize that premium to the employee).

  
***In light of recent news I've started to believe group policies are not superior in terms of quality anymore although I'll admit its probably more of a tough call and where you live.***  


First off I've said many times that when it comes to healthcare your deductible or your co-pay is not "quality" because deductible, co-pay, etc. is just the method by which you pay your healthcare over time (more in premiums or more at the doctors office). Instead actual quality is about getting to the word "yes". I have a better plan than you if my carrier either lets me see a bunch of higher tier specialists than your plan or my proposed treatment plan has a higher chance of being deemed medically necessary than yours does.  


Now its easy to say that because group plans are wider networks than that = better, but I don't think anyone can say that adjudication options are superior in group over the individual market with how things are going. There are just way, way better appeals options in the individual market than the group market and the ultimate appeals option of a state court vs. an ERISA case in federal court means very different teeth when it comes to a fight. And that difference almost certainly informs decisions at individual carriers to approve claims at a higher rate than group carriers/TPAs as we see in the claim denial statistics.

And for the reason above I'm now thinking that an individual policy in many markets may be the "higher quality option". I'll admit that some lack of top tier healthcare providers in your area or particularly bad situation in your local exchange market could make it a bit different of a story.

  
Thoughts?

  
\*\*For purposes of this discussion I'm excluding the obvious impacts of employer subsidizing health insurance or APTCs subsidizing individual coverage. 
