Thread ID: 1gi69w1
Title: Plan exclusion for enteral feeding supplies.
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1730581146
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Complete
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is facing multiple denials from their insurance for enteral feeding supplies for their child, citing plan exclusions and lack of medical necessity, leading to confusion and financial strain.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: insurance denial, medical necessity, appeals process
Options Suggested: contact insurance for case manager, file complaint with state department of insurance, request Evidence of Coverage
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with their insurance denial and has detailed their ongoing struggles with the appeals process.
Original Post: Hi,

Im in WY, i am under a quantum health plan. $70k total household income. My child was born with a condition where they have a cleft palate. Their diagnosis was unknown until birth so no time to prepare. Due to this, they are unable to eat by mouth and after a month of trying to get them to eat by specialized bottle in the hospital their doctors advised me that my child should receive a g-tube and receive nutrition by g-tube which requires an enteral pump, bags, tube extensions and everything else that goes along with it. The company we were going through to receive these supplies were also supplying us with formula. About 4 months in i get a call from insurance saying the formula was a plan exclusion. I understood and they were confused as to why the pump, bags and all other related supplies were not covered but said theyd work it out with the provider. Didnt hear from them or the provider for months. A year in with the pump and we got our first bill from the provider for a grotesque amount. Insurance had paid nothing toward the bill, got ahold of them and they again were confused as to why none of the supplies were covered, they said it was never sent through pre authorization so they reran the authorization. 2 weeks go by, finally get a call back and they said it was a plan exclusion for everything. For an entire year i was under the impression the insurance company was covering these supplies. That same day i called the company back and got up the chain to their parent company’s claim dept. They said it wasnt denied as a plan exclusion but as being “not medically necessary”. So im lost as to what their actual reasons were. I appealed all claim denials and justified as to why they were medically necessary and just got my appeal back in the mail saying it was denied as being a plan exclusion. This is not what we had been told initially and frankly more frustrating. On the appeal letter we received back they labeled my child’s diagnosis as unspecified and overall condition unspecified after i wrote a detailed letter of their condition and diagnosis and conversations with their doctors as well as attached information that would say it is medically necessary. With the company giving me 2 different answers as to why these supplies are not covered, i dont know what the next step is. We cant afford the care my child needs out of pocket. And being in a state with a dismal medicare program, i made $214 too much in the year 2022 to qualify my child for medicaid starting in 2023 and their condition isnt considered a disability by my state. We are at our wits end with little to no clue as to what to do or how to afford something like this. 
