Thread ID: szxspp
Title: surprise therapy bills after 6 months with no coverage?
Subreddit: medicalbill
Created: 1645665518
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Insurance coverage denial due to lapse in coverage
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: The original poster is seeking advice on how to contest unexpected therapy bills totaling over $600 after their insurance lapsed without notification from their therapist's office.
Responses Summary: Commenters suggest that the therapist has an ethical responsibility to inform the OP about insurance coverage and recommend negotiating the bill based on income or asking for it to be written off.
Themes: Ethical responsibility of therapists, Negotiating medical bills, Insurance communication issues
Options Suggested: Negotiate bill based on income, Request to write off the bill, Seek assistance from Medicaid
Fit Explanation: The OP is currently facing a denial situation and is actively seeking help to address it, indicating a very good fit for assistance.
Original Post: 
hi all. I've been seeing the same therapist for about 4-5 years now, and I've run into a problem with her recently. so when I first started seeing her, i saw her because she was the only therapist that accepted my father's insurance from the military. then after a while since she's a licensed social worker as well, she helped me get state medical insurance assistance as well and it's been fantastic. I guess since she helped me get the insurance, I assumed that her office accepted it. anyway, that was years ago. speed forward to august (2021), i turn 21 and i get unexpectedly dropped from my fathers' military insurance, but it's fine because I said "well I have the state insurance, so I'm covered". and I know that I talked about it in my therapy session because it was an absolute headache- when I tried picking up any of my prescriptions it was automatically denied by the state insurance because i didnt know that i had to inform them that they were my primary insurance. so i cleared that up with them, and then it was fine. so now we flash forward to my therapy session in january of this year (2022), about 6 months from being dropped from the military insurance. a couple days after my appointment my therapist messages me and asks if any of my insurance information has changed, because my insurance declined coverage for this visit. then when i sent them my state insurance card, they said "we don't accept thst insurance, what happened to the other one?" and I said "I lost that insurance in August when turned 21 because I "aged out"". a couple weeks later, I have now received a bill for my sessions from september to november, totally more than $600- I didn't even KNOW my therapy sessions cost that much. I told them that had i known, i don't know, 6 months ago when the insurance first lapsed that I wouldn't have scheduled any appointments further until i had my insurance situation figured out. so I'm wondering if anyone knows what my options are on fighting this because im sorry but this is bullshit. if they would have told me in september that my insurance was no longer covering me, i wouldn't have made 5 more months worth of appointments following the one in september. 

TLDR: my insurance lapsed in the middle of a couple months' worth of therapy sessions. my therapist did not bring this to my attention until 6 months later, when now the bills have pilled up over $600 worth that I owe them. what are my options in fighting them on this, because it cant possibly be my fault when they neglected to inform me for 6 months that my insurance was no longer covering me.
