Thread ID: 1kfp9zb
Title: Ambulance ride denied claim (United healthcare)
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1746485075
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Out of network
Outcome: Unclear
OP Summary: The user had an ambulance ride denied by United Healthcare due to it being classified as out of network, despite it being an emergency situation. They are seeking advice on how to appeal the denial and understand their options.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Emergency services, Insurance appeal process, Out of network coverage
Options Suggested: Contact UHC for clarification, Appeal the claim as an emergency, Negotiate directly with the ambulance service
Fit Explanation: The user is currently facing a denial and is looking for help, indicating a very good fit for appeal assistance.
Original Post: 37/m. Pre tax income is $130k. I live in Maryland, but work in Washington DC.
For healthcare, I have United healthcare choice + HRA through my employer.

In late March, I was playing tennis after work and broke my arm  (I was playing indoors and going after a ball I had no business going for and went into a wall.)

The bone in my arm was clearly broken and bent out of shape, and I was in an immense amount of pain. People working at a place I was playing called paramedics who responded.

It was a Washington DC fire department ambulance crew who responded. Like I said, I was in an immense amount of pain and there was no way I could’ve driven myself. So we made the decision to have me transported to the hospital. They took me to one of the university hospitals in the city. I wasn’t asked that part… it was just like “ OK we are taking him to XXX University.”

So my bill for the ambulance is roughly $1800. This is their flat fee plus a mileage fee.

UHC denied the claim and I am on the hook for the entire bill because as of right now in the patient portal, it says “ claim denied: out of network.”

I could understand having to pay some sort of deductible out of this however, I’m wondering why my claim was denied and I am on the hook for the entire thing.

I haven’t contacted UHC yet. Before I do, just wanted to post here for some insights and advice.

1. Any idea why they would’ve claimed this was out of network? I was somewhere I didn’t technically live (DC vs MD), however, this was for the emergency room and the people who are company who transported me were the fire department.

2. Is it possible they are going to see the ambulance ride is not necessary?

3. Any advice on engaging with UHC to get more information about why they denied the claim and how to potentially dispute this?

Thank you

