Thread ID: 1kbm0g3
Title: Dentist submitted prior auth for WRONG tooth 2 yrs ago...
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1746033601
Persona Fit: 0.8
Confidence: 0.7
Denial Type: Prior authorization submitted for the wrong tooth
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is facing a denial from their insurance for a dental implant due to a prior authorization mistake made by their dentist two years ago, which has caused confusion and concern about potential costs. They are seeking advice on how to resolve the issue and whether their dentist will absorb the costs if the insurance does not pay.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: insurance denial, billing errors, patient advocacy
Options Suggested: Contact the dental office for clarification, Request the dentist to void the prior authorization, Call the insurance company for assistance
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help regarding a denial and is in a state of confusion about the situation, indicating a very good fit for assistance.
Original Post: I got a dental implant for tooth 29 two years ago, the dental work was to be fully covered by my insurance. It was covered from what i understood. Fast-forward to today; they submitted a prior authorization for my next implant, which is number 30 (right next to 29). My insurance denied it saying that "services were already covered for this tooth". I was very confused, so I called the insurance. They said my same dentist submitted a prior auth, and received payment for tooth number 30, two years ago. I said that couldnt be the case, because I had an implant placed on tooth 29 two years ago. They reiterated that my dentist submitted for and received payment from my insurance for "tooth 30". My dental plan covers one implant/crown per tooth, per lifetime. I called my dental office in a panic to point out the mistake, and told them to check their records because they submitted for a prior auth for the incorrect tooth 2 years ago! They looked at it, the woman at the front desk who i was speaking to was lost for words on how her office could make such a mistake like this. She told me she will send it to their billing office in corporate, as well as speak to my dentist personally about this to "see what they can do". I asked how long this could possibly take, and she said she doesnt know, and that it can take "some time". Im freaking out because if my insurance doesnt pay for my work, it will cost me almost 6 grand! My insurance also told me that my dentist will have to "void" the prior authorization and claim, so that they can resubmit for my ACTUAL tooth 30 again. Its been 2 years though! Im worried that too much time has passed (im reading online that the statute of limitations has already passed, but not seeing a definitive answer). Does anyone have experience with this? I live in the state if NY by the way. Im waiting for a call to see what can be done. Would my dentist be able to bill me for the unpaid cost if my insurance doesnt pay? I cant imagine they would try and leave me with the bill...if my insurance doesnt pay, wouldnt my dentist office have to absorb the cost? Help lol! (thank you in advance)
