Thread ID: 1h9lkxr
Title: UHC dental experience
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1733672780
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user experienced multiple denials from UHC dental for necessary crown replacements due to frequency, despite having medical documentation supporting their case. They are frustrated with the insurance process and the impact on their health.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: Insurance denial, Medical necessity, Allergic reactions
Options Suggested: Appeal the denial, Consult with another dentist, Seek legal advice
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help with their insurance denial and has detailed their ongoing issues with UHC dental.
Original Post: I get UHC dental through my employer. (Subsidiary under the UHG umbrella) I had my first dental implant placed in 2022. I had to pay out of pocket as I had already met my max. Anyway after getting it placed, I started having a persistent cough. Originally thinking it was due to allergies, due to having black mold growth. I just let it slide and see what happens. However after January 2023 something wasn’t quite right. I spoke with my dentist and he believed it wasn’t that. So we continued onto getting the crown put on. A continued on to the next dental implant. It aggravate my symptoms a bit more but I continued to ignore it further. Got the 2nd crown on. It all went to hell in a hand basket. I kept complaining to my dentist that something wasn’t right. He advised me to see an allergist. After seeing the allergist, he confirmed that I had a minor allergic reaction to the Titanium and A major allergic reaction to the crown material. I went back to my dentist and he did not believe me. So I went to another dentist who took off the crowns. To see if it made a difference. Which it did. He advised we can see if insurance would cover another type dental crowns.

 This is where UHC dental gets involved. After the dental office submitted the dental claim. UHC denied due to frequency. So we appealed and sent all the health information, including the allergist letter. An UHC still denied it saying “it’s not medically necessary” yet when I called they said that Gold or Nobel medal fused to porcelain is covered. So we resubmitted a third time and still denied due to frequency. So I would essentially have to wait 5 years. Same situation if we redid the dental implant with another material. 

Yet UHC would cover the dental implant removal. Oh but we are not done. The oral surgeons office had an issue with the pre-authorized. Where when they originally submitted the request. They could not get both covered. But they submitted it individually and both were finally covered. After the removal. I got my bill from the oral surgeon and one only showed as covered. Per the explanation of benefits the 2nd one it just possibly wasn’t seen or ignored it. No notes why it was denied. (This is something I am working on with the office) 

Luckily since the removal I’m 100% better and no longer coughing up a lung. Also, it was impacting my breathing to the point where I was diagnosed with allergic asthma. 

But seriously UHC you need to do better. This is why I tell my family do not get UHC insurance health or dental. 
