Thread ID: 1kaafsu
Title: Coverage for important EEG denied, how do I make a strong appeal?
Subreddit: healthinsurance
Created: 1745884761
Persona Fit: 1.0
Confidence: 1.0
Denial Type: Not medically necessary
Outcome: Ongoing
OP Summary: The user is seeking advice on how to appeal a denial from their insurance for a medically necessary EEG, which they believe is crucial for managing their epilepsy treatment.
Responses Summary: No response summary available
Themes: appeal process, insurance denial, medical necessity
Options Suggested: contact neurologist, gather medical records, fill out appeal forms
Fit Explanation: The user is actively seeking help to appeal the denial of a medically necessary procedure, indicating a perfect fit for assistance.
Original Post: I (22M) have had partial focal epilepsy on and off for almost my entire life, which means I’ve been on and off of my meds at my neurologist’s guidance for just as long. At my neurologist’s request (same neurologist I’ve had my whole life btw), I got a 24 hour unmonitored take-home EEG done in late January to check for seizure activity. If there was no abnormal activity, I could go off of my meds! If there still was abnormal activity, my dose would be increased (this wouldn’t be the first time). So obviously, this is 100% medically necessary! If I don’t get these EEGs done, I will just stay on my meds for the rest of my life, which I absolutely do not want for a laundry list of reasons. Well, thankfully, this EEG came back nice and clean, and I’ve been weening off of my meds for over a month now, and I feel great!

That is until I got a letter in the mail from my insurance company today (on my parents plan under my dad through the company he works for) saying that my last EEG was, in fact, NOT medically necessary in their eyes! News to me! Their medical director (who is apparently under the “family medicine” category, so not a neurologist from my understanding) says this in the letter:

“Records provided did not show that a recent standard EEG (measurement of electrical activity of the brain) was normal. Your notes also do not show that seizures were provoked by stopping medicines. There is no indication that this testing would help guide adjusting medicines. There are no records of surgery being planned. The above are approved indications per your health plan rules for a continuous video EEG. The requested EEG monitoring must therefore be denied as not medically necessary per BCBSIL medical policy.”

Some clarifications—first: this is NOT the first time in my life they’ve denied an EEG. They’ve done this once before for the same reasoning. My parents sucked it up and coughed up the money last time, but we literally CANNOT do that this time due to financial troubles out of our control, and my own retail job does basically nothing in the face of an EEG bill. Second: as far as I’m aware, I’ve NEVER had a “continuous video EEG”, I’ve only ever had the standard one done for my WHOLE LIFE, so I have no clue what that’s all about. Third: literally HOW am I supposed to know my seizures would OR wouldn’t come back off of my medication IF I CAN’T GO OFF OF IT WITHOUT AN EEG DONE FIRST? Going off of my meds WITHOUT an EEG clearing me is BEYOND dangerous not only for me but for other people (example: an unmedicated person with epilepsy driving, operating machinery, doing heavy lifting, or handling dangerous materials is a HORRIBLE idea, if that wasn’t already obvious).

Since I’m older now and more involved in these things compared to the last time this happened, I’m now aware of this happening, and it reminded me of a supposedly reliable way to appeal denials like this that went viral online awhile back due to… a dramatic event having to do with another insurance company. I can’t remember the method for the life of me though, and would also just like other general guidance for an appeal as well.

We’re willing to try anything to fight this, we can’t and shouldn’t have to pay this bill, and this absolutely ridiculous inconsistency and labeling of my obviously medically necessary procedure as NOT necessary is driving me goddamn insane. Any and all advice is appreciated, I’ll work with my parents to answer any clarifying questions that may need to be answered to help us further.

Sorry for the long post and rambling (and possible weird formatting, I’m on mobile), I’m panicked and upset. Hopefully I stayed within the rules here and this is the right place to ask this too. Have a great day/night, and thank you!
